content/authors/admin/_index.md, before:

---
# Display name
name: Joey O'Brien

# Username (this should match the folder name)
authors:
- admin

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position
role: Data Scientist/Consultant

# Organizations/Affiliations
organizations:
- name: Acadia (Quaternion Risk Management)
  url: "https://www.acadia.inc/quant-services"

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: Consultant in quantitative finance and data science for Acadia, working in R and Python.

interests:
- Complex Systems
- Networks
- Data Science
- Statistics
- Quantitative Finance

education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD in Applied Mathematics
    institution: University of Limerick
    year: 2017-2021
  - course: BSc. in Financial Mathematics
    institution: University of Limerick
    year: 2013-2017

# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: 'obrienjoeyd@gmail.com'  # For a direct email link, use "mailto:obrienjoeyd@gmail.com".
- icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://twitter.com/obrienj_
- icon: linkedin
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/joeyobrien/
- icon: orcid
  icon_pack: ai
  link: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9516-0175
- icon: google-scholar
  icon_pack: ai
  link: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=IrhV4UwAAAAJ&hl=en
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/obrienjoey
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: ""

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
- Researchers
- Visitors
---

I'm a consultant in the Quant Services division of [Acadia](https://www.acadia.inc/quant-services) where I focus on applying 
techniques from data science and applied mathematics in helping financial groups
including tier-one investment banks and hedge funds perform efficient risk 
calculations and analysis within their portfolios.

My interests include statistics, data science, network science, education, and
public-speaking across a range of domains. This tends to result in working within
a range of programming languages including R, Python, Julia, and SQL.

I received my PhD in Applied Mathematics from the University of Limerick with a
focus on describing the dynamics of complex systems through a combination of mathematical modelling alongside large-scale data analysis. These systems can range from memes, online threads to even Fantasy sports!  

## News
- **February 19th, 2022**: My first `R` package [spRingsteen](https://obrienjoey.github.io/spRingsteen/) has been published on CRAN, providing a range of datasets describing the career of Bruce Springsteen in a tidy format for data analysis.
- **January 26th, 2022**: Gave an invited seminar to the [Royal Statistical Society](https://rss.org.uk/training-events/events/events-2022/local-groups/rssni-talkrssni-talk-january-26th,-2022-quantifyin/#fulleventinfo) (Northern Ireland branch) on some of our recent work on using data-driven complexity science to understand the popularity of online content.
- **November 22nd, 2021**: Delighted to see some of our work on Covid-19 modelling published in a special issue on ‘Data science approaches to infectious disease surveillance’ in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A   [Link](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rsta.2021.0120) | [Preprint.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.04705)
- **October 22nd, 2021**: Just out in Physical Review Research: Our work on Herbert Simon's classical random-copying model and extensions to incorporate memory effects. [Link.](https://journals.aps.org/prresearch/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.3.043057)
- **May 14th, 2021**: New in Physical Review Research - we take a deep dive into the emrgence of leader nodes across a large collection of empirical networks (open access). [Link.](https://journals.aps.org/prresearch/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.3.023117)
- **May 3rd, 2021**: I was invited to write a blog for Oxford University Press on our recent work where we applied complex networks theory alongside data science techniques to the problem of ranking within the sport of snooker. [Link.](https://blog.oup.com/2021/05/a-complex-networks-approach-to-ranking-professional-snooker-players/)
- **March 4th, 2021**: Our work on Fantasy Premier League has just been published in PLOS ONE, with some media coverage including [New Scientist](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2254155-maths-reveals-the-top-strategies-to-win-at-fantasy-football/), [The Times (London)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/best-fantasy-football-managers-are-the-special-ones-837qqrfqm), [The Daily Star](https://www.dailystar.co.uk/sport/football/fantasy-football-guardiola-jurgen-klopp-23610644), [Today FM (radio interview)](https://www.todayfm.com/podcasts/the-last-word-with-matt-cooper/the-secrets-of-fantasy-football-success), [The Irish Examiner](https://www.irishexaminer.com/news/munster/arid-40237667.html), [The Irish Times](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/offbeat/experts-disclose-secret-to-fantasy-football-s-best-and-the-rest-1.4501480), [Irish Independent](https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/premier-league/revealed-ul-study-shows-how-long-term-planning-and-enabler-players-are-secrets-to-fantasy-premier-league-success-40158922.html), [Limerick Leader](https://www.limerickleader.ie/news/sport/614377/university-of-limerick-study-reveals-secrets-of-fantasy-premier-league-success.html), [Limerick Post](https://www.limerickpost.ie/2021/03/06/university-of-limerick-research-identifies-secrets-of-fantasy-premier-league-success/), and [Offaly Express](https://www.offalyexpress.ie/news/sport/615118/revealed-the-secrets-of-fantasy-football-success.html). [Link](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0246698) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.01206). 
- **Ferbruary 4th, 2021**: If you've ever wondered about webscraping in `R` or the secrets to success in Fantasy Premier League (or both!) then check out this invited webinar I gave for the [WhyR? foundation](http://whyr.pl/foundation/). [Slides](https://joeyobrientalks.netlify.app/2021_whyR_webinar/20210204-WhyR.pdf) | [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrbWF8nr_FA&t=3485s&ab_channel=WhyR%3FFoundation)
- **December 4th, 2020**: Received a prize for best speaker at the [7th SIAM Irish Student Chapter Conference](https://sites.google.com/view/siam-ima-dublin/events/student-conference?authuser=0) where I presented our work on ranking within complex systems. [Slides](https://joeyobrientalks.netlify.app/2020_SIAM_Snooker/2020_SIAM_Snooker.pdf) | [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GbsM_qhiQJ0&feature=emb_logo&ab_channel=SIAM-IMADublinArea)
- **September 10th, 2020**:  Our work on FPL has been featured in **[New Scientist](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2254155-maths-reveals-the-top-strategies-to-win-at-fantasy-football/)**.

Commit message:

added news about RTE Game On.

content/authors/admin/_index.md, after:

---
# Display name
name: Joey O'Brien

# Username (this should match the folder name)
authors:
- admin

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position
role: Data Scientist/Consultant

# Organizations/Affiliations
organizations:
- name: Acadia (Quaternion Risk Management)
  url: "https://www.acadia.inc/quant-services"

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
bio: Consultant in quantitative finance and data science for Acadia, working in R and Python.

interests:
- Complex Systems
- Networks
- Data Science
- Statistics
- Quantitative Finance

education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD in Applied Mathematics
    institution: University of Limerick
    year: 2017-2021
  - course: BSc. in Financial Mathematics
    institution: University of Limerick
    year: 2013-2017

# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "#contact" for contact widget.
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: 'obrienjoeyd@gmail.com'  # For a direct email link, use "mailto:obrienjoeyd@gmail.com".
- icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://twitter.com/obrienj_
- icon: linkedin
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/joeyobrien/
- icon: orcid
  icon_pack: ai
  link: https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9516-0175
- icon: google-scholar
  icon_pack: ai
  link: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=IrhV4UwAAAAJ&hl=en
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/obrienjoey
# Link to a PDF of your resume/CV from the About widget.
# To enable, copy your resume/CV to `static/files/cv.pdf` and uncomment the lines below.
# - icon: cv
#   icon_pack: ai
#   link: files/cv.pdf

# Enter email to display Gravatar (if Gravatar enabled in Config)
email: ""

# Organizational groups that you belong to (for People widget)
#   Set this to `[]` or comment out if you are not using People widget.
user_groups:
- Researchers
- Visitors
---

I am a consultant in the Quant Services division of [Acadia](https://www.acadia.inc/quant-services) where I focus on applying 
techniques from data science and applied mathematics in helping financial groups
including tier-one investment banks and hedge funds perform efficient risk 
calculations and analysis within their portfolios.

My interests include statistics, data science, network science, education, and
public-speaking across a range of domains. This tends to result in working within
a range of programming languages including R, Python, Julia, and SQL.

I received my PhD in Applied Mathematics from the University of Limerick with a
focus on describing the dynamics of complex systems through a combination of mathematical modelling alongside large-scale data analysis. These systems can range from memes, online threads to even Fantasy sports!  

## News
- **April 26th, 2022**: Interviewed on the radio show Game On from RTE 2FM to discuss the ongoing Snooker World Championship and how mathematics can help us rank the competing players [(1:37:44 onwards)](https://www.rte.ie/radio/2fm/game-on/programmes/2022/0426/1294268-game-on-tuesday-26-april-2022/).
- **February 19th, 2022**: My first `R` package [spRingsteen](https://obrienjoey.github.io/spRingsteen/) has been published on CRAN, providing a range of datasets describing the career of Bruce Springsteen in a tidy format for data analysis.
- **January 26th, 2022**: Gave an invited seminar to the [Royal Statistical Society](https://rss.org.uk/training-events/events/events-2022/local-groups/rssni-talkrssni-talk-january-26th,-2022-quantifyin/#fulleventinfo) (Northern Ireland branch) on some of our recent work on using data-driven complexity science to understand the popularity of online content.
- **November 22nd, 2021**: Delighted to see some of our work on Covid-19 modelling published in a special issue on ‘Data science approaches to infectious disease surveillance’ in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A   [Link](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rsta.2021.0120) | [Preprint.](https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.04705)
- **October 22nd, 2021**: Just out in Physical Review Research: Our work on Herbert Simon's classical random-copying model and extensions to incorporate memory effects. [Link.](https://journals.aps.org/prresearch/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.3.043057)
- **May 14th, 2021**: New in Physical Review Research - we take a deep dive into the emrgence of leader nodes across a large collection of empirical networks (open access). [Link.](https://journals.aps.org/prresearch/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevResearch.3.023117)
- **May 3rd, 2021**: I was invited to write a blog for Oxford University Press on our recent work where we applied complex networks theory alongside data science techniques to the problem of ranking within the sport of snooker. [Link.](https://blog.oup.com/2021/05/a-complex-networks-approach-to-ranking-professional-snooker-players/)
- **March 4th, 2021**: Our work on Fantasy Premier League has just been published in PLOS ONE, with some media coverage including [New Scientist](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2254155-maths-reveals-the-top-strategies-to-win-at-fantasy-football/), [The Times (London)](https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/best-fantasy-football-managers-are-the-special-ones-837qqrfqm), [The Daily Star](https://www.dailystar.co.uk/sport/football/fantasy-football-guardiola-jurgen-klopp-23610644), [Today FM (radio interview)](https://www.todayfm.com/podcasts/the-last-word-with-matt-cooper/the-secrets-of-fantasy-football-success), [The Irish Examiner](https://www.irishexaminer.com/news/munster/arid-40237667.html), [The Irish Times](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/offbeat/experts-disclose-secret-to-fantasy-football-s-best-and-the-rest-1.4501480), [Irish Independent](https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/premier-league/revealed-ul-study-shows-how-long-term-planning-and-enabler-players-are-secrets-to-fantasy-premier-league-success-40158922.html), [Limerick Leader](https://www.limerickleader.ie/news/sport/614377/university-of-limerick-study-reveals-secrets-of-fantasy-premier-league-success.html), [Limerick Post](https://www.limerickpost.ie/2021/03/06/university-of-limerick-research-identifies-secrets-of-fantasy-premier-league-success/), and [Offaly Express](https://www.offalyexpress.ie/news/sport/615118/revealed-the-secrets-of-fantasy-football-success.html). [Link](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0246698) | [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.01206). 
- **Ferbruary 4th, 2021**: If you've ever wondered about webscraping in `R` or the secrets to success in Fantasy Premier League (or both!) then check out this invited webinar I gave for the [WhyR? foundation](http://whyr.pl/foundation/). [Slides](https://joeyobrientalks.netlify.app/2021_whyR_webinar/20210204-WhyR.pdf) | [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lrbWF8nr_FA&t=3485s&ab_channel=WhyR%3FFoundation)
- **December 4th, 2020**: Received a prize for best speaker at the [7th SIAM Irish Student Chapter Conference](https://sites.google.com/view/siam-ima-dublin/events/student-conference?authuser=0) where I presented our work on ranking within complex systems. [Slides](https://joeyobrientalks.netlify.app/2020_SIAM_Snooker/2020_SIAM_Snooker.pdf) | [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GbsM_qhiQJ0&feature=emb_logo&ab_channel=SIAM-IMADublinArea)
- **September 10th, 2020**:  Our work on FPL has been featured in **[New Scientist](https://www.newscientist.com/article/2254155-maths-reveals-the-top-strategies-to-win-at-fantasy-football/)**.
